Backup restore restructure (#99)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/operations/backup-restore/external.md

---

> title: Back up with an external storage provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Back up using an external storage provider
```

weight: 2
---

You can configure MKE 4 to externally store backups and restores, for example,
in object storage provided by a public cloud provider.

{{< callout type="info" >}}
   AWS S3 is currently the only external backup storage supported by MKE 4.
{{< /callout >}}

## Configure an external storage provider

1. Copy the credentials information from the AWS console to create an IAM
credentials file.

    ![AWS console](aws-console-credentials.png)

2. Edit the `storage_provider` section of the MKE configuration file to point
to the IAM credentials file, including the profile name.

    Example configuration:
    
    ```yaml
      storage_provider:
        type: External
        external_options:
          provider: aws
          bucket: bucket_name
          region: us-west-2
          credentials_file_path: "/path/to/iamcredentials"
          credentials_file_profile: "386383511305_docker-testing"
    ```

3. Create an S3 bucket.

4. Point the configuration to the S3 bucket and region.

5. Verify the existence of the `BackupStorageLocation` custom resource:

    ```shell
    kubectl --kubeconfig <path-to-kubeconfig> get backupstoragelocation -n mke
    ```

> 6. Run the `apply` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Apply the configuration:
```

---
title: Back up with an external storage provider
weight: 2
---

You can configure MKE 4 to store backups and restores externally, for example,
in object storage provided by a public cloud provider.

{{< callout type="info" >}}

>    AWS S3 is currently the only supported external backup storage
>    for an MKE 4.

Author: ```suggestion
      AWS S3 is currently the only external backup storage supported by MKE 4.
```

1. Copy the credentials information from the AWS console to create an IAM
credentials file.

    ![AWS console](aws-console-credentials.png)

2. Edit the `storage_provider` section of the MKE configuration file to point
to the IAM credentials file, including the profile name.

3. Create an S3 bucket.

4. Point the configuration to the S3 bucket and region.

    Example configuration:
    
    ```yaml
      storage_provider:
        type: External
        external_options:
          provider: aws
          bucket: bucket_name
          region: us-west-2
          credentials_file_path: "/path/to/iamcredentials"
          credentials_file_profile: "386383511305_docker-testing"
    ```
    
5. Once you have configured the AWS backup storage and the MKE configuration file
has been applied, verify the existence of the `BackupStorageLocation` custom resource:
    
    ```shell
    kubectl get backupstoragelocation -n mke
    ```

6. Run the `apply` command:

   ```shell
    mkectl apply
   ```

    Example output may require a few minutes to display:
    
    ```shell
    NAME      PHASE       LAST VALIDATED   AGE   DEFAULT
    default   Available   20s              32s   true
    ```

> ## Create an external storage backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create an external backup
```

With the configuration complete, you can now create backups and perform restores

> from those backups.

Reviewer: Suggest deleting this sentence, as it offers nothing interesting, mentions restores when restores are not documented in this section, and because it has no counterpart in the In-Cluster section.

aws-backup   Completed   0        0          2024-05-08 16:17:18 -0400 EDT   29d       default            <none>
```

> ##  Restore from an external storage backup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Restore from an external backup
```

> Restore operation returns the Kubernetes cluster state to what it was at the
> time of a backup creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A restore operation returns the Kubernetes cluster to the state it was in at the time the backup you select was created.
```

aws-backup-20240508161811   aws-backup   Completed   2024-05-08 16:18:11 -0400 EDT   2024-05-08 16:18:34 -0400 EDT   0        108        2024-05-08 16:18:11 -0400 EDT   <none>
```

## Verify backups and restores

> To verify if both the backups and restores are created in the S3 bucket,
> go to your AWS console and navigate to the **backups** section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using your AWS console, you can verify the presence of your backups and restores in the S3 bucket.
```
